Eat Your Flowers: 10 Edible Blooms for Nutritional Benefits

1. Nasturtiums

When it comes to edible flowers, I always say – this one takes the crown! The vivid hues of its petals also hide that signature peppery taste, which is a true delight in salads!

They are incredibly rich in Vitamin C – a real bonus for your immune system!

2. Marigolds


Marigolds are fascinating flowers, thanks to their bright colors. I always add them in my soups and salads to not only add that vibrant touch (Makes me more hungry!) but also to add that spicy, tangy zest!

The antioxidants in these flowers are fantastic for skin health – no wonder it’s always glowing!

3. Pansies and Violets

These small flowers pack quite a punch, and I never stay away from them when it comes to the sweet and savory dishes in my recipe! I use these blooms to add a splash of color to desserts for that decorative touch. You must try these, too!

Rich in vitamins A and C, they’re not just pretty – they’re healthy too!

4. Chamomile

Its mild and slightly sweet flavor is such a delight – the reason why they’re my go-to pick for desserts, especially milk-based ones! I love using their fresh petals to add richness to my cakes and pastries.


They have anti-inflammatory benefits, which is a plus for anyone looking to add healthful ingredients to their diet.


5. Borage

Before you jump the wagon and yell – Borage! No way! Well, hear me out! These blooms will surely remind you of cucumbers, but they come with a refreshing twist. Chop its petals and add them to any summer drink or salad – You will thank me!


Their rich content of omega-6 fatty acids is excellent for maintaining healthy skin and joints.

6. Chive Blossoms

I won’t lie – these are some of my favorites! Why, you may ask? Because their flavor is just perfect, which makes them great for my morning breakfast routine – salads and egg preparations!


The antioxidant properties and the richness of vitamins A and C make them a healthful choice for anyone.

You Can also Read 10 Edible Blooms for Nutritional Benefits in the given link.

https://balconygardenweb.com/edible-flowers-for-nutritional-benefits/
